Title: Avalonix Wireless Camera review
Date: 2009-10-13 18:07
Author: Attila-Mihaly Balazs
Tags: reviewme, review
Slug: avalonix-wireless-camera-review
Status: published

A [wireless security camera](http://www.security-cameras-cctv.com) is
quite an interesting piece of technical equipment, which – the
conventional wisdom holds – can deter people from breaking the rules
(whatever those might be) or help after the fact demonstrate “who done
it”. Their real value is however questionable. For one, they can become
a prime target for attackers (“the first to fall”). Second of all,
regardless of what is shown in TV shows, the resolution is quite poor,
so it is improbable that you would get something out of it which could
be used to identify a person with any certainty. Finally, there is a big
problem with unauthorized people getting access to the pictures
(voyeurism), *especially* with wireless security cameras, and
*especially* with Internet connected wireless security cameras.

If you have carefully considered all the possible drawbacks and still
want to install a [wireless security
camera](http://www.security-cameras-cctv.com) (or more), you might want
to take a look at the Avalonix 5.8GHz Wireless cameras. They advertise a
reception distance between 3000ft (around one Km) and 7 miles (around 11
Km) with a proper antenna. They have a separate night vision mode and
420 lines of resolution. Again, consider if this is enough for your
purpose. 420 lines is lower than the resolution of a standard-definition
TV (which is 480). Two other concerns are the fact that the only
provider for Avalonix cameras (security-cameras-cctv.com) seems to be
offline currently (even though the server responds to pings, the webpage
doesn’t load – tried from two geographically distant networks - and the
Google cache shows a lot of MySQL errors) and the only mention I could
find contains a complaint. The technical specification also fails to
clarify if this is an outdoor or indoor camera.

On the bright side of this [wireless security
camera](http://www.security-cameras-cctv.com), the domain seems to be
rather old (stable) and its owner doesn’t hide behind a proxy
registration service (off topic: I too agree with the opinion that only
private individuals should by allowed to use the domain-by-proxy type
services, and that businesses should be needed to provide real
*verifiable* contact information).

Currently my advice would be to go for a different type of camera, one
which is more widely available and for which more reviews exists. Again,
consider that such equipment might be a prime target for vandals, so you
might be better off installing it in a covert location, and eventually
providing some cheap fake camera lookalikes. Also, consider using a high
resolution camera. One good test is to take a digital camera and shoot a
couple of photos from the angle where you are considering to mount the
camera (include some people in the photos near the perimeter of the view
field). Then take the photo (which is probably of a high resolution 5+
megapixel) and shrink it down to whatever the camera specification says.
See if you can still see enough details of the people in the picture
(and consider that scaling down preserves more information that just
plain-out taking the picture at the smaller resolution – so if you are
unable to distinguish faces, you won’t be able to with the camera).

*Full disclosure: this is a paid review from
[ReviewMe](http://www.reviewme.com/). Under the terms of the
understanding I was not obligated to skew my viewpoint in any way (ie.
only post positive facts).*
